---
date: 2020-06-06T06:17:22+09:00
title: "RC Logr 20200606 061722"
slug: "1591391842"
draft: false
---

I use some integrated AWS services to host some sites, including S3 for basic hosting, Cloudfront for CDN, Certificate Manager for SSL and Route 53 for DNS. Who doesn't like automation? 🤖 A couple of notes: 

* Re ACM SSL certs, what worked well for me is to add the wildcard (*.cogley.info) as the basic cert name, and the apex as an additional name (cogley.info). Also, DNS validation is convenient because you don't have to do anything but _fail to delete_ the CNAME you need. If you use Route 53 it's even better since there's a big button that will create the CNAME for you. Once the CNAME is there, ACM will just happily renew for you. Ahhh, bask in the automation. 
* You can have multiple copies of a cert. It's either in use or it's not, so just get it right, then delete the ones you don't need. Cloudfront will re-deploy within a few minutes anyway, so it's really no big deal to make a mistake. 
* In your Cloudfront distribution edit screen, once your certificate is validated, you can just type `*.mydomain...` and it will show you the choices that match. There's a UUID identifier you can get from the cert itself, which appears in the dropdown, just in case you have multiple certs that match. 
* Again in your Cloudfront distribution, make sure to choose TLS 1.2 (TLSv1.2_2018), which is the spec from 2008. At this point, so much time has passed that I think it's safe to not pander to people with browsers from earlier than that. 
